tidb-lightning: add a new doc about compatibility and scenarios (#17677)
pingcap/docs: tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-compatibility-and-scenarios.md

You can perform in different scenarios as follows:

- Scenario 1: the table does not need to be replicated downstream by TiCDC.

    In this scenario, if TiCDC changefeed is enabled, the compatibility check will report an error after starting TiDB Lightning. If you are sure that these tables do not need to be replicated by TiCDC, you can change the `Lightning.check-requirements` parameter in the [TiDB Lightning configuration file](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) to `false` and then restart the import task.

- Scenario 2: the table needs to be replicated downstream by TiCDC.

    In this scenario, if TiCDC changefeed is enabled, the compatibility check will report an error after starting TiDB Lightning. You need to change the `Lightning.check-requirements` parameter in the [TiDB Lightning configuration file](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) in the upstream TiDB cluster to `false` and then restart the import task.

>     After the import task for the upstream TiDB cluster is finished, use TiDB Lightning to import a copy of the same data in the downstream TiDB cluster. If you have databases such as Redshift and Snowflake in the downstream, you can have these databases read CSV or Parquet files from a cloud storage service and write them to the database.

Author: ```suggestion
    After the import task for the upstream TiDB cluster is finished, use TiDB Lightning to import a copy of the same data in the downstream TiDB cluster. If you have databases such as Redshift and Snowflake in the downstream, you can have these databases read CSV, SQL, or Parquet files from a cloud storage service and write them to the database.
```

## Scenarios for `IMPORT INTO`

This section describes how to use `IMPORT INTO` together with [log backup](/br/br-pitr-guide.md) and [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md).

### Used with log backup

You can perform in different scenarios as follows:

- Scenario 1: tables do not need to be backed up

>     In this scenario, if [PITR](/br/br-log-architecture.md#process-of-pitr) is enabled, the compatibility check will report an error after you submit the `IMPORT INTO` SQL. If you are sure that these tables do not need to be backed up or backed up by [log backups](/br/br-pitr-guide.md), you can include `DISABLE_PRECHECK` (introduced in v8.0.0) in [`WithOptions`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md#withoptions) of that SQL, and then resubmit it, so that the data import task ignores the compatibility check, and imports the data directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In this scenario, if [PITR](/br/br-log-architecture.md#process-of-pitr) is enabled, the compatibility check will report an error after you submit the `IMPORT INTO` statement. If you are sure that these tables do not need backup or [log backup](/br/br-pitr-guide.md), you can include `DISABLE_PRECHECK` (introduced in v8.0.0) in [`WithOptions`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md#withoptions) of that statement, and then resubmit it. In this way, the data import task ignores the compatibility check and imports the data directly.
```

- Scenario 2: after the import is finished, there will be no new DML operations on the table

    This scenario does not involve incremental data writes, so it is sufficient to perform a table-level snapshot backup of the table after completing the data import, as described in [Back up a table](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-a-table).

    During data recovery, the snapshot data of the table is restored. See [Restore a table](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#restore-a-table) for the procedure.

- Scenario 3: after the import is finished, perform new DML operations to the table (not supported)

>     In this scenario, you can only choose either [full snapshot backup](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md) or [log backup](/br/br-pitr-guide.md) for the backup operation of this table. You cannot back up and restore the full snapshot data and log backup data of this table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In this scenario, you can only choose either [full snapshot backup](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md) or [log backup](/br/br-pitr-guide.md) for this table. You cannot back up and restore both the full snapshot data and log backup data of this table.
```

### Used with TiCDC

You can perform in different scenarios as follows:

- Scenario 1: the table does not need to be replicated downstream by TiCDC.

>     In this scenario, the compatibility check will report an error after you submit the `IMPORT INTO` SQL because TiCDC changefeed is enabled. If you are sure that these tables do not need to be replicated by TiCDC, you can include `DISABLE_PRECHECK` (introduced in v8.0.0) in [`WithOptions`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md#withoptions) of that SQL, and then resubmit it, so that the data import task ignores the compatibility check, and imports the data directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In this scenario, if TiCDC changefeed is enabled, the compatibility check will report an error after you submit the `IMPORT INTO` statement. If you are sure that these tables do not need to be replicated by TiCDC, you can include `DISABLE_PRECHECK` (introduced in v8.0.0) in [`WithOptions`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md#withoptions) of that statement, and then resubmit it. In this way, the data import task ignores the compatibility check and imports the data directly.
```

- Scenario 2: the table needs to be replicated downstream by TiCDC.

    In this scenario, if TiCDC changefeed is enabled, the compatibility check will report an error after starting TiDB Lightning. you can include `DISABLE_PRECHECK` (introduced in v8.0.0) in [`WithOptions`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md#withoptions) of that SQL, and then resubmit it, so that the data import task ignores the compatibility check, and imports the data directly.

>     After the import task for the upstream TiDB cluster is finished, use TiDB Lightning to import a copy of the same data in the downstream TiDB cluster. If you have databases such as Redshift and Snowflake in the downstream, you can have these databases read CSV or Parquet files from a cloud storage service and write them to the database.

Author: ```suggestion
    After the import task for the upstream TiDB cluster is finished, use `IMPORT INTO` to import a copy of the same data in the downstream TiDB cluster. If you have databases such as Redshift and Snowflake in the downstream, you can have these databases read CSV or Parquet files from a cloud storage service and write them to the database.
```

>     After the import task for the upstream TiDB cluster is finished, use `IMPORT INTO` to import a copy of the same data in the downstream TiDB cluster. If you have databases such as Redshift and Snowflake in the downstream, you can have these databases read CSV, SQL, or Parquet files from a cloud storage service and write them to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    After the import task for the upstream TiDB cluster is finished, use `IMPORT INTO` to import the same data in the downstream TiDB cluster. If you have databases such as Redshift and Snowflake in the downstream, you can configure them to read CSV, SQL, or Parquet files from a cloud storage service and then write the data to the database.
```

---

> title: Compatibility and Scenarios of IMPORT INTO and TiDB Lightning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Compatibility of TiDB Lightning and Import Into with TiCDC and Log Backup
```

> summary: Learn about compatibility and scenarios of IMPORT INTO and TiDB Lightning, log backup, and TiCDC.
> ---
> 
> # Compatibility and Scenarios of IMPORT INTO and TiDB Lightning

Author: ```suggestion
summary: Learn about compatibility of IMPORT INTO and TiDB Lightning with log backup and TiCDC.
---

# Compatibility of TiDB Lightning and IMPORT INTO with TiCDC and Log Backup
```

- `IMPORT INTO` is not compatible with log backup and TiCDC.

## Scenarios for TiDB Lightning physical import mode

This section describes how to use TiDB Lightning together with [log backup](/br/br-pitr-guide.md) and [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md).

If the performance of TiDB Lightning logical import can meet the performance requirements of the application and the application requires TiDB Lightning imported tables to be backed up or replicated downstream using TiCDC, it is recommended to use TiDB Lightning logical import mode.

If the application requires import performance and can only use TiDB Lightning physical import mode, and the tables need to be backed up or replicated downstream using TiCDC, the following scenarios are recommended.

### Used with log backup

#### Scenario 1: tables in physical import mode do not need to be backed up

> In this scenario, the compatibility check will report an error after starting TiDB Lightning because [PITR](/br/br-log-architecture.md#pitr) is enabled. If you are sure that these tables do not need to be backed up or backed up by [log backup](/br/br-pitr-guide.md), you can change the [TiDB Lightning configuration file](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) in the `Lightning.check-requirements` parameter to `false` and restart the task.

Author: ```suggestion
In this scenario, the compatibility check will report an error after starting TiDB Lightning because [PITR](/br/br-log-architecture.md#process-of-pitr) is enabled. If you are sure that these tables do not need to be backed up or backed up by [log backup](/br/br-pitr-guide.md), you can change the [TiDB Lightning configuration file](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) in the `Lightning.check-requirements` parameter to `false` and restart the task.
```

- Scenario 2: The table needs to be replicated downstream by TiCDC. In this scenario, the compatibility check will report an error after starting TiDB Lightning because TiCDC changefeed is enabled. You need to change the `Lightning.check-requirements` parameter in the [TiDB Lightning configuration file](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) in the upstream TiDB cluster to `false`and then restart the task. After that, use TiDB Lightning to import a copy of the same data in the downstream TiDB cluster. If you have databases such as Redshift and Snowflake downstream, you can have these databases read CSV or Parquet files from a cloud storage service and write them to the database.

## Scenarios for `IMPORT INTO`

This section describes how to use `IMPORT INTO` together with [log backup](/br/br-pitr-guide.md) and [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md).

### Used with log backup

> In this scenario, the compatibility check will report an error after you submit the `IMPORT INTO` SQL because [PITR](/br/br-log-architecture.md#pitr) is enabled. If you are sure that these tables do not need to be backed up or backed up by [log backups](/br/br-pitr-guide.md), you can include `DISABLE_PRECHECK` (introduced in v8.0.0) in [`WithOptions`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md#withoptions) of that SQL, and then resubmit it, so that the data import task ignores the compatibility check, and imports the data directly.

Author: ```suggestion
In this scenario, the compatibility check will report an error after you submit the `IMPORT INTO` SQL because [PITR](/br/br-log-architecture.md#process-of-pitr) is enabled. If you are sure that these tables do not need to be backed up or backed up by [log backups](/br/br-pitr-guide.md), you can include `DISABLE_PRECHECK` (introduced in v8.0.0) in [`WithOptions`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md#withoptions) of that SQL, and then resubmit it, so that the data import task ignores the compatibility check, and imports the data directly.
```
